Hi Jordan, how are you?
Hi, Sally. Nice to meet you.
Can you hear me?
Yes. Perfectly.
Awesome. Well, thanks for
taking the time to meet with me.
Of course, I'm excited
to meet with you,
but it's a little nerve-racking.
Well, nothing to
be nervous about.
This will just be an
opportunity for me
to get to know you and for you to
understand a little
bit more about
this junior data analyst
role and what it entails.
Why don't we start off, tell
me a little bit about yourself.
Sure. I originally thought I
was going to be a teacher,
but life had other
plans for me and I
decided it wasn't what I
really wanted to do with my life.
I took some time off and
worked in retail for a bit.
Then someone told me about
the Google Data Analytics
Certificate Program.
I decided to give it a
try, something different.
It turns out, I really
like the stuff and I
was pretty good at it.
I decided to apply for
the junior analyst role.
What specifically drew
you to data analytics?
I really like that is
centered around digging
into things and learning more
about them and improving them.
It's like working with puzzles,
but when you finish the puzzle,
you're helping companies make
smarter business decisions.
I mean, that's pretty cool.
That's awesome. I
love puzzles too.
Speaking of which,
not all puzzles have
a direct solution and sometimes
things can fall apart.
Is there a time when
you've dealt with
a really difficult issue
that you had to
take ownership of?
Definitely. When I was a teacher,
we frequently had
problems, issues with
budgeting for things like
school supplies and
after-school programs.
We always seemed to run
out of money because
we were working with one
budget for everything.
I rallied the other teachers
together and we created
budgets for each category
and that worked a lot better.
I can imagine that was
really frustrating.
Sure. We had to figure it out
all ourselves because no one
was going to fix it for us.
Since no one was
initiating it,
I decided to take it
on as a side project.
Well, I know you
mentioned working with
other teachers and in
retail in the past.
For this role,
there will be times
when you're working with
other team members
and times when you're
just by yourself.
Do you have a preference or
what is your preferred
working style?
I have experience working
in both situations.
I love working with people
and collaborating just
like I did for the budgeting
project and in retail.
I'm also really good at working
independently and getting
things done. After
all I was a teacher,
so I created my
own teaching plans
and managed my own classroom.
I just try to keep an open mind
and bring people in as needed.
Very good. Someone like you
who is transitioning from
a completely different field
to being a data analyst,
how would you adapt to
that change if hired?
Well, though they're
very different fields,
I think a lot of
my prior experience would
translate well in analytics.
My ability as a teacher to
sift through a lot
of information and
distill it down to what's
important and easily
understandable.
That would be very beneficial
as a data analyst
when I'm explaining data and
numbers to someone who
might not like math.
Working in retail made me really
good at communication and
managing classrooms
and difficult customers
both made me really good
at people managing too.
I think these skills will
translate really well
as a data analyst.
Great. One last question,
how do you stay motivated
when you're working on a project?
Good question. For me it's
the people I work with.
I love getting to know
the people I work with
because that's what's
going to motivate me to put in
that extra time and
that extra effort.
Because I know my work means
something to someone I know.
That's what motivates
me and keeps me going.
Excellent. Well, that's all
the questions that I had.
Do you have any questions for me?
Yes, I do.
What does a typical work
week look like in this role?
Good question. In this role,
you would be working mainly with
our technology teams and a
couple of data scientists.
We do have a stand
up meeting every
Monday to go over
important tasks,
align on goals and check
everyone's progress.
This company is really
about open communication.
You'd be brought in
to different meetings
and you'll find that you're
constantly talking
to your colleagues
about all manner of things,
especially if there's
a deadline coming up.
That's good to hear.
Open communication
is always important.
Can you tell me a little bit
more about the day-to-day?
Yes. For sure.
I think your job would
mostly involve analyzing
large datasets like
administrative data,
insurance,
billing claims, basically a
lot of different information.
It's heavily dependent
on the specific project.
Great. Thank you. I like that
there's variety depending
on the project.
One more question.
What's your favorite part about
working for this company?
Sometimes a difficult question,
but I definitely love our team.
I think it's a really
smart and dedicated group
of people who really
love what they do.
We're all very collaborative
and respectful of each other,
which is especially important
when you're dealing with
stressful situations or a problem
that comes up out of nowhere.
I also really love
how comfortable I am
communicating with everyone,
even stakeholders.
That really makes
life so much easier.
That's awesome. I think
it's really important
for a work environment
to be approachable.
Yes, for sure.
When you realize everyone pretty
much wants the same end goal,
there's really no reason not to
be cooperative and communicative.
I agree. I know I said
that was my last question,
but I have one more.
Can I ask what the next steps
in this process will look like?
Yes, for sure that's
where I was going
to go next anyways.
Thank you for that question.
We will be contacting
candidates within the week
and emailing a case
study to solve.
We'll set up a second interview
for you to present that.
Obviously we'll be looking
for how you work,
what skills you utilize,
and just your technical abilities
throughout this assignment.
All of the details will be in
the email that I send out,
so please keep an
eye out for that
and I look forward to our
next meeting. Sound good?
Perfect. Thank you so much
Jordan and it was
really great talking
with you and I appreciate you
going through the
details of the job.
Of course. Thank you so
much for your time, Sally.
It was great getting to know you.
I'll be in touch and I look
forward to you speaking soon.
It was a great meeting as
well. Have a great week.
You too. Bye.